Short ABIs for Calldata Optimization (#5672)
ethereum/ethereum-org-website: src/content/developers/tutorials/short-abi/index.md

---
title: "Short ABIs for Calldata Optimization"
description: Optimizing smart contracts for Optimistic Rollups
author: Ori Pomerantz
lang: en
sidebar: true

> tags: ["layer 2", "l2", "optimism", "gas"]

Reviewer: Lets not duplicate tags

```suggestion
tags: ["layer 2", "optimism", "gas"]
```

skill: intermediate
published: 2022-04-01
---

## Introduction {#introduction}

> In this article you learn about [optimistic rollups](/developers/docs/scaling/optimistic-rollups), the cost of transactions on them, and how that different cost structure requires us to optimize for different things than on the Ethereum mainnet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this article, you learn about [optimistic rollups](/developers/docs/scaling/optimistic-rollups), the cost of transactions on them, and how that different cost structure requires us to optimize for different things than on the Ethereum Mainnet.
```

You also learn how to implement this optimization.

### Proper disclosure {#proper-disclosure}

I'm a full time [Optimism](https://www.optimism.io/) employee, so  examples in this article are going to run on Optimism.
However, the technique explained here should work just as well for other rollups.

> ### Terminology   {#terminology}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Terminology {#terminology}
```

When discussing rollups the term "layer 1" (or L1) is used for mainnet, the production Etherum network.
The term "layer 2" (or L2) is used for the rollup, or any other system that relies on L1 for security but does most of its processing offchain.

## The problem {#the-problem}

> ### Cost of L2 transactions  {#cost-of-l2-transactions}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Cost of L2 transactions {#cost-of-l2-transactions}
```

> [Optimistic rollups](/developers/docs/scaling/optimistic-rollups) have to preserve a record of every historical transaction in such a manner that anybody will be able to go through them and verify that the current state is correct.
> The cheapest way to get data into the Ethereum mainnet is to write it as calldata.
> This solution was chosen by both [Optimism](https://help.optimism.io/hc/en-us/articles/4413163242779-What-is-a-rollup-) and [Arbitrum](https://developer.offchainlabs.com/docs/rollup_basics#intro-to-rollups).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Optimistic rollups](/developers/docs/scaling/optimistic-rollups) have to preserve a record of every historical transaction so that anybody will be able to go through them and verify that the current state is correct.
The cheapest way to get data into the Ethereum Mainnet is to write it as calldata.
This solution was chosen by both [Optimism](https://help.optimism.io/hc/en-us/articles/4413163242779-What-is-a-rollup-) and [Arbitrum](https://developer.offchainlabs.com/docs/rollup_basics#intro-to-rollups).
```

Therefore, the cost of L2 transactions is composed of two components:

1. L2 processing, which is usually extremely cheap

> 1. L1 storage, which is tied to mainnet gas costs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. L1 storage, which is tied to Mainnet gas costs
```

As I'm writing this, on Optimism the cost of L2 gas is 0.001 [Gwei](https://ethereum.org/en/developers/docs/gas/#pre-london).

> The cost of L1 gas, on the other hand, is approximately 40 Gwei.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The cost of L1 gas, on the other hand, is approximately 40 gwei.
```

[You can see the current prices here](https://public-grafana.optimism.io/d/9hkhMxn7z/public-dashboard?orgId=1&refresh=5m).

A byte of calldata costs either 4 gas (if it is zero) or 16 gas (if it is any other value).
One of the most expensive operations on the EVM is writing to storage.

> The maximum cost of writing a 32-byte word to storage on L2 is 22100 gas, currently that is 22.1 Gwei.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The maximum cost of writing a 32-byte word to storage on L2 is 22100 gas. Currently, this is 22.1 gwei.
```

So if we can save a single zero byte of calldata, we'll be able to write about 200 bytes to storage and still come out ahead.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

### The ABI {#the-abi}

> The vast majority of transactions access a contract from an externally-owned account. 
> Most contracts are written in Solidity and interpret their data field in accordance with [the application binary interface (ABI)](https://docs.soliditylang.org/en/latest/abi-spec.html#formal-specification-of-the-encoding).
> 
> However, the ABI was designed for L1 where a byte of calldata costs approximately the same as four arithmetic operations, not L2 where a byte of calldata costs more than a thousand arithmetic operations.
> For example, [here is an ERC-20 transfer transaction](https://kovan-optimistic.etherscan.io/tx/0x7ce4c144ebfce157b4de99d8ad53a352ae91b57b3fa06d8a1c79439df6bfa998).
> The calldata is divided like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The vast majority of transactions access a contract from an externally-owned account. 
Most contracts are written in Solidity and interpret their data field per [the application binary interface (ABI)](https://docs.soliditylang.org/en/latest/abi-spec.html#formal-specification-of-the-encoding).

However, the ABI was designed for L1, where a byte of calldata costs approximately the same as four arithmetic operations, not L2 where a byte of calldata costs more than a thousand arithmetic operations.
For example, [here is an ERC-20 transfer transaction](https://kovan-optimistic.etherscan.io/tx/0x7ce4c144ebfce157b4de99d8ad53a352ae91b57b3fa06d8a1c79439df6bfa998).
The calldata is divided like this:
```

| ------- | -----: | ----: | -----------: | ---------: | --------------: | ------------: |
| Function selector | 4 | 0-3 | 3 | 48 | 1 | 16
| Zeroes | 12 | 4-15 | 12 | 48 | 0 | 0
| Destination address | 20 | 16-35 | 0 | 0 | 20 | 320 
| Amount | 32 | 36-67 | 17 | 64 | 15 | 240
| Total  | 68 | | | 160 | | 576

Explanation:

- **Function selector**: The contract has less than 256 functions, so we can distinguish them with a single byte.
  These bytes are typically non-zero and therefore [cost sixteen gas](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-2028).
- **Zeroes**: These bytes are always zero because a twenty-byte address does not require a thirty-two-byte word to hold it.
  Bytes that hold zero cost four gas ([see the yellow paper](https://ethereum.github.io/yellowpaper/paper.pdf), Appendix G,
  p. 27, the value for `G`<sub>`txdatazero`</sub>).
- **Amount**: If we assume that in this contract `decimals` is eighteen (the normal value) and the maximum amount of tokens we transfer will be 10<sup>18</sup>, we get a maximum amount of 10<sup>36</sup>.
  256<sup>15</sup> &gt; 10<sup>36</sup>, so fifteen bytes are enough.
  

> A waste of 160 gas on L1 is normally negligible. A transaction costs at least [21,000 gas](https://yakkomajuri.medium.com/blockchain-definition-of-the-week-ethereum-gas-2f976af774ed), so an extra 0.8% doesn't matter.
> However, on L2 things are different, almost the entire cost of the transaction is writing it to L1.
> In addition to the transaction calldata, there are 109 bytes of transaction header (destination address, signature, etc.).
> The total cost is therefore `109*16+576+160=2480`, and we are wasting about 6.5% of that.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A waste of 160 gas on L1 is normally negligible. A transaction costs at least [21,000 gas](https://yakkomajuri.medium.com/blockchain-definition-of-the-week-ethereum-gas-2f976af774ed), so an extra 0.8% doesn't matter.
However, on L2, things are different. Almost the entire cost of the transaction is writing it to L1.
In addition to the transaction calldata, there are 109 bytes of transaction header (destination address, signature, etc.).
The total cost is therefore `109*16+576+160=2480`, and we are wasting about 6.5% of that.
```

## The solution when you don't control the destination {#the-solution-when-you-dont-control-the-destination}

Assuming that you do not have control over the destination contract, you can still use a solution similar to [this one](https://github.com/qbzzt/ethereum.org-20220330-shortABI).
Let's go over the relevant files.

### Token.sol {#token.sol}

[This is the destination contract](https://github.com/qbzzt/ethereum.org-20220330-shortABI/blob/master/contracts/Token.sol).
It is a standard ERC-20 contract, with one additional feature.
This `faucet` function lets any user get some token to use. 
It would make a production ERC-20 contract useless, but it makes life easier when an ERC-20 exists only to facilitate testing.

```solidity
    /**
     * @dev Gives the caller 1000 tokens to play with
     */
    function faucet() external {
        _mint(msg.sender, 1000);
    }   // function faucet
```

[You can see an example of this contract being deployed here](https://kovan-optimistic.etherscan.io/address/0x950c753c0edbde44a74d3793db738a318e9c8ce8).

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

### CalldataInterpreter.sol {#calldatainterpreter.sol}

[This is the contract that transactions are supposed to call with shorter calldata](https://github.com/qbzzt/ethereum.org-20220330-shortABI/blob/master/contracts/CalldataInterpreter.sol).
Let's go over it line by line.

```solidity
//SPDX-License-Identifier: Unlicense
pragma solidity ^0.8.0;

import { OrisUselessToken } from "./Token.sol";
```

We need the token function to know how to call it.

```solidity
contract CalldataInterpreter {

    OrisUselessToken public immutable token;
```

The address of the token for which we are a proxy.

```solidity
    
    /**
     * @dev Specify the token address
     * @param tokenAddr_ ERC-20 contract address
     */
    constructor(
        address tokenAddr_
    )  {
        token = OrisUselessToken(tokenAddr_);
    }   // constructor
```

The token address is the only parameter we need to specify.

```solidity
    function calldataVal(uint startByte, uint length)
        private pure returns (uint) {
```

Read a value from the calldata.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

In the case of `CalldataInterpreter`, *any* call gets here because there are no other `external` or `public` functions.

```solidity
        uint _func;

        _func = calldataVal(0, 1);
```

Read the first byte of the calldata, which tells us the function.
There are two reasons why a function would not be available here:

1. Functions that are `pure` or `view` don't change the state and don't cost gas (when called off-chain).
   It makes no sense to try to reduce their gas cost.
   
2. Functions that rely on [`msg.sender`](https://docs.soliditylang.org/en/v0.8.12/units-and-global-variables.html#block-and-transaction-properties).
   The value of `msg.sender` is going to be `CalldataInterpreter`'s address, not the caller.
   
Unfortunately, [looking at the ERC-20 specifications](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-20), this leaves only one function, `transfer`.
This leaves us with only two functions: `transfer` (because we can call `transferFrom`) and `faucet` (because we can transfer the tokens back to whever called us).

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```solidity

        // Call the state changing methods of token using
        // information from the calldata

        // faucet
        if (_func == 1) {
```

A call to `faucet()`, which doesn't have parameters.

```solidity
            token.faucet();
            token.transfer(msg.sender,
                token.balanceOf(address(this)));
        }
```

After we call `token.faucet()` we get tokens. However, as the proxy contract, we do not **need** tokens. 
The EOA (externally owned account) or contract that called us does.
So we transfer all of our tokens to whoever called us.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```solidity
        // transfer (assume we have an allowance for it)
        if (_func == 2) {
```

> Transfer tokens.

Reviewer: Is this a heading?

Author: No, I just put each sentence in its own line. But I decided to delete this sentence anyway.

Transferring tokens requires two parameters: the destination address and the amount

```solidity
            token.transferFrom(
                msg.sender,
```

We only allow callers to transfer tokens they own

```
                address(uint160(calldataVal(1, 20))),
```

The destination address starts at byte #1 (byte #0 is the function).

> As an address, it is 20 bytes long.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As an address, it is 20-bytes long.
```

```solidity
                calldataVal(21, 2)
```

For this particular contract we assume that the maximum number of tokens anybody would want to transfer fits in two bytes (less than 65536).

```solidity
            );
        }     
```

Overall, a transfer takes 35 bytes of calldata:

| Section              | Length | Bytes | 
| -------------------- | -----: | ----: |
| Function selector    | 1      | 0     |
| Destination address  | 32     | 1-32  |
| Amount               | 2      | 33-34 |

```solidity
    }   // fallback

}       // contract CalldataInterpreter
```

> ### test.js   {#test.js}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### test.js {#test.js}
```

```

Here we verify the balance. 
There is no need to save gas on `view` functions, so we just run them normally.

```javascript
    // Give the CDI an allowance (approvals cannot be proxied)
    const approveTX = await token.approve(cdi.address, 10000)
    await approveTX.wait()
    expect (await token.allowance(signer.address, cdi.address))
      .to.equal(10000)
```

Give the calldata interpreter an allowance to be able to do transfers.

```javascript
    // Transfer tokens
    const destAddr = "0xf5a6ead936fb47f342bb63e676479bddf26ebe1d"
    const transferTx = {
      to: cdi.address,
      data: "0x02" + destAddr.slice(2,42) + "0100"
    }
```

Create a transfer transaction. The first byte is "0x02", followed by the destination address, and finally the amount (0x0100, which is 256 in decimal).

```javascript
    await (await signer.sendTransaction(transferTx)).wait()

    // Check that we have 256 tokens less
    expect (await token.balanceOf(signer.address)).to.equal(1000-256)    

    // And that our destination got them
    expect (await token.balanceOf(destAddr)).to.equal(256)        
  })    // it
})      // describe
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

3. [Call to `faucet()`](https://kovan-optimistic.etherscan.io/tx/1410746).
4. [Call to `OrisUselessToken.approve()`](https://kovan-optimistic.etherscan.io/tx/1410747).
   This call has to go directly to the token contract because the processing relies on `msg.sender`.
5. [Call to `transfer()`](https://kovan-optimistic.etherscan.io/tx/1410748). 

## If you do control the destination contract   {#if-you-do-control-the-destination-contract}

If you do have control over the destination contract you can create functions that bypass the `msg.sender` checks because they trust the calldata interpreter.
[You can see an example of how this works here, in the `control-contract` branch](https://github.com/qbzzt/ethereum.org-20220330-shortABI/tree/control-contract).

If the contract were responding only to external transactions, we could get by with having just one contract.
However, that would break [composability](/developers/docs/smart-contracts/composability/).
It is much better to have a contract that responds to normal ERC-20 calls, and another contract that responds to transactions with short call data.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

1. Is modified by `onlyProxy()` so nobody else is allowed to control them.
2. Gets the address that would normally be `msg.sender` as an extra parameter.

### CalldataInterpreter.sol {#calldatainterpreter.sol-2}

The calldata interpreter is nearly identical to the one above, except that the proxied functions receive a `msg.sender` parameter and there is no need for an allowance for `transfer`.

```solidity
        // transfer (no need for allowance)
        if (_func == 2) {
            token.transferProxy(
                msg.sender, 
                address(uint160(calldataVal(1, 20))),
                calldataVal(21, 2)
            );
        }

        // approve
        if (_func == 3) {
            token.approveProxy(
                msg.sender,
                address(uint160(calldataVal(1, 20))),
                calldataVal(21, 2)
            );
        }

        // transferFrom
        if (_func == 4) {
            token.transferFromProxy(
                msg.sender,
                address(uint160(calldataVal( 1, 20))),
                address(uint160(calldataVal(21, 20))),
                calldataVal(41, 2)
            );    
        }
```       

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```js
    // Transfer tokens
    const destAddr = "0xf5a6ead936fb47f342bb63e676479bddf26ebe1d"
    const transferTx = {
      to: cdi.address,
      data: "0x02" + destAddr.slice(2,42) + "0100"
    }
    await (await signer.sendTransaction(transferTx)).wait()
```

Because the ERC-20 contract trusts the proxy (`cdi`), we don't need an allowance to relay transfers.

```js
    // approval and transferFrom
    const approveTx = {
      to: cdi.address,
      data: "0x03" + poorSigner.address.slice(2,42) + "00FF"
    }
    await (await signer.sendTransaction(approveTx)).wait()
    

    const destAddr2 = "0xE1165C689C0c3e9642cA7606F5287e708d846206"

    const transferFromTx = {
      to: cdi.address,
      data: "0x04" + signer.address.slice(2,42) + destAddr2.slice(2,42) + "00FF"
    }
    await (await poorSigner.sendTransaction(transferFromTx)).wait()    

    // Check the approve / transeferFrom combo was done correctly
    expect (await token.balanceOf(destAddr2)).to.equal(255)        
```

Test the two new functions. 
Note that `transeferFromTx` requires two address parameters: the giver of the allowance and the receiver.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

### Example  {#example-2}

If you want to see these files in action without running them yourself, follow these links:

1. [Deployment of `OrisUselessToken-2`](https://kovan-optimistic.etherscan.io/tx/1475397) at address [`0xb47c1f550d8af70b339970c673bbdb2594011696`](https://kovan-optimistic.etherscan.io/address/0xb47c1f550d8af70b339970c673bbdb2594011696).
2. [Deployment of `CalldataInterpreter`](https://kovan-optimistic.etherscan.io/tx/1475400) at address [`0x0dccfd03e3aaba2f8c4ea4008487fd0380815892`](https://kovan-optimistic.etherscan.io/address/0x0dccfd03e3aaba2f8c4ea4008487fd0380815892).
3. [Call to `setProxy()`](https://kovan-optimistic.etherscan.io/tx/1475402).
4. [Call to `faucet()`](https://kovan-optimistic.etherscan.io/tx/1475409). 
5. [Call to `transferProxy()`](https://kovan-optimistic.etherscan.io/tx/1475416).
6. [Call to `approveProxy()`](https://kovan-optimistic.etherscan.io/tx/1475419).
7. [Call to `transferFromProxy()`](https://kovan-optimistic.etherscan.io/tx/1475421).
   Note that this call comes from a different address than the other ones, `poorSigner` instead of `signer`.

## Conclusion

> Both [Optimism](https://medium.com/ethereum-optimism/the-road-to-sub-dollar-transactions-part-2-compression-edition-6bb2890e3e92) and [Arbitrum](https://developer.offchainlabs.com/docs/special_features) are looking for ways to reduce the size of the calldata written to L1 and therefore the cost of transactions. 
> However, as infrastructure providers looking for generic solutions our abilities are limited. 
> As the dapp developer you know information specific to your application, which lets you optimize for it much better than we could in a generic solution.
> Hopefully this article helps you find the ideal solution for your needs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Both [Optimism](https://medium.com/ethereum-optimism/the-road-to-sub-dollar-transactions-part-2-compression-edition-6bb2890e3e92) and [Arbitrum](https://developer.offchainlabs.com/docs/special_features) are looking for ways to reduce the size of the calldata written to L1 and therefore the cost of transactions. 
However, as infrastructure providers looking for generic solutions, our abilities are limited. 
As the dapp developer, you have application-specific knowledge, which lets you optimize your calldata much better than we could in a generic solution.
Hopefully, this article helps you find the ideal solution for your needs.
```

---
title: "Short ABIs for Calldata Optimization"
description: Optimizing smart contracts for Optimistic Rollups
author: Ori Pomerantz
lang: en
sidebar: true

> tags: ["layer 2", "l2", "optimism"]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
tags: ["layer 2", "l2", "optimism", "gas"]
```

[Optimistic rollups](/developers/docs/scaling/optimistic-rollups) have to preserve a record of every historical transaction in such a manner that anybody will be able to go through them and verify that the current state is correct.
The cheapest way to get data into the Ethereum mainnet is to write it as calldata.
This solution was chosen by both [Optimism](https://help.optimism.io/hc/en-us/articles/4413163242779-What-is-a-rollup-) and [Arbitrum](https://developer.offchainlabs.com/docs/rollup_basics#intro-to-rollups).

Therefore, the cost of L2 transactions is composed of two components:

1. L2 processing, which is usually extremely cheap
1. L1 storage, which is tied to mainnet gas costs

As I'm writing this, on Optimism the cost of L2 gas is 0.001 [Gwei](https://ethereum.org/en/developers/docs/gas/#pre-london).
The cost of L1 gas, on the other hand, is approximately 40 Gwei.
[You can see the current prices here](https://public-grafana.optimism.io/d/9hkhMxn7z/public-dashboard?orgId=1&refresh=5m).

A byte of calldata costs either 4 gas (if it is zero) or 16 gas (if it is any other value).
One of the most expensive operations on the EVM is writing to storage.

> The maximum cost of writing a 32 byte word to storage on L2 is 22100 gas, currently that is 22.1 Gwei.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The maximum cost of writing a 32-byte word to storage on L2 is 22100 gas, currently that is 22.1 Gwei.
```

Hyphenated when "byte" or "bit" is not pluralized, ie: 
"The address is 20 bytes long. It is a 20-byte address."

> So if we can save a single zero byte of calldata, we'll be able to write about 200 bytes to storage and still come out ahead.

Reviewer 2: Would consider rewording some of this section to make it clearer what exactly "the problem" is here. Trying to be clear myself, is it to emphasize the expense of writing calldata?

Also, use of the word "Therefore" seemed off immediately after mentioning "chosen by both Optimism and Arbitrum."

However, the ABI was designed for L1 where a byte of calldata costs approximately the same as four arithmetic operations, not L2 where a byte of calldata costs more than a thousand arithmetic operations.
For example, [here is an ERC-20 transfer transaction](https://kovan-optimistic.etherscan.io/tx/0x7ce4c144ebfce157b4de99d8ad53a352ae91b57b3fa06d8a1c79439df6bfa998).
The calldata is divided like this:

| Section | Length | Bytes | Wasted bytes | Wasted gas | Necessary bytes | Necessary gas |
| ------- | -----: | ----: | -----------: | ---------: | --------------: | ------------: |
| Function selector | 4 | 0-3 | 3 | 48 | 1 | 16
| Zeroes | 12 | 4-15 | 12 | 48 | 0 | 0
| Destination address | 20 | 16-35 | 0 | 0 | 20 | 320 
| Amount | 32 | 36-67 | 17 | 64 | 15 | 240
| Total  | 68 | | | 160 | | 576

Explanation:

- **Function selector**: The contract has less than 256 functions, so we can distinguish them with a single byte.
  These bytes are typically non-zero and therefore [cost sixteen gas](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-2028).

> - **Zeroes**: These bytes are always zero because a twenty byte address does not require a thirty two byte word to hold it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Zeroes**: These bytes are always zero because a twenty-byte address does not require a thirty-two-byte word to hold it.
```

- **Amount**: If we assume that in this contract `decimals` is eighteen (the normal value) and the maximum amount of tokens we transfer will be 10<sup>18</sup>, we get a maximum amount of 10<sup>36</sup>.
  256<sup>15</sup> &gt; 10<sup>36</sup>, so fifteen bytes are enough.
  
A waste of 160 gas on L1 is normally negligible. A transaction costs at least [21,000 gas](https://yakkomajuri.medium.com/blockchain-definition-of-the-week-ethereum-gas-2f976af774ed), so an extra 0.8% doesn't matter.
However, on L2 things are different, almost the entire cost of the transaction is writing it to L1.
In addition to the transaction calldata, there are 109 bytes of transaction header (destination address, signature, etc.).
The total cost is therefore `109*16+576+160=2480`, and we are wasting about 6.5% of that.

## The solution when you don't control the destination {#the-solution-when-you-dont-control-the-destination}

Assuming that you do not have control over the destination contract, you can still use a solution similar to [this one](https://github.com/qbzzt/ethereum.org-20220330-shortABI).
Let's go over the relevant files.

### Token.sol {#token.sol}

> [This is the destinatjon contract](https://github.com/qbzzt/ethereum.org-20220330-shortABI/blob/master/contracts/Token.sol).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[This is the destination contract](https://github.com/qbzzt/ethereum.org-20220330-shortABI/blob/master/contracts/Token.sol).
```

Let's go over it line by line.

```solidity
//SPDX-License-Identifier: Unlicense
pragma solidity ^0.8.0;

import { OrisUselessToken } from "./Token.sol";
```

We need the token function to know how to call it.

```solidity
contract CalldataInterpreter {

    OrisUselessToken public immutable token;
```

The address of the token for which we are a proxy.

```solidity
    
    /**
     * @dev Specify the token address
     * @param tokenAddr_ ERC-20 contract address
     */
    constructor(
        address tokenAddr_
    )  {
        token = OrisUselessToken(tokenAddr_);
    }   // constructor
```

The token address is the only parameter we need to specify.

```solidity
    function calldataVal(uint startByte, uint length)
        private pure returns (uint) {
```

Read a value from the calldata.

```solidity
        uint _retVal;

        require(length < 0x21, 
            "calldataVal length limit is 32 bytes");

        require(length + startByte <= msg.data.length,
            "calldataVal trying to read beyond calldatasize");
```

> We are going to load a single 32 byte (256 bit) word to memory and remove the bytes that aren't part of the field we want.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We are going to load a single 32-byte (256-bit) word to memory and remove the bytes that aren't part of the field we want.
```

                msg.sender,
                address(uint160(calldataVal(1, 20))),
                calldataVal(21, 2)
            );
        }

        // transferFrom
        if (_func == 4) {
            token.transferFromProxy(
                msg.sender,
                address(uint160(calldataVal( 1, 20))),
                address(uint160(calldataVal(21, 20))),
                calldataVal(41, 2)
            );    
        }
```       

### Test.js {#test.js-2}

There are a few changes between the previous testing code and this one.

```js
    const Cdi = await ethers.getContractFactory("CalldataInterpreter")
    const cdi = await Cdi.deploy(token.address)
    await cdi.deployed()
    await token.setProxy(cdi.address)
```

We need to tell the ERC-20 contract which proxy to trust

```js
    console.log("CalldataInterpreter addr:", cdi.address)

    // Need two signers to verify allowances
    const signers = await ethers.getSigners()
    const signer = signers[0]
    const poorSigner = signers[1]
```

To check `approve()` and `transferFrom()` we need a second signer. 
We call it `poorSigner` because it does not get any of our tokens (it does need to have ETH, of course).

```js

>     .
>     .
>     .
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

    // Transfer tokens
    const destAddr = "0xf5a6ead936fb47f342bb63e676479bddf26ebe1d"
    const transferTx = {
      to: cdi.address,
      data: "0x02" + destAddr.slice(2,42) + "0100"
    }
    await (await signer.sendTransaction(transferTx)).wait()
```

Because the ERC-20 contract trusts the proxy (`cdi`), we don't need an allowance to relay transfers.

```js

>     .
>     .
>     .
>     

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
